SOURCE: Indeed — University of Colorado Boulder employee reviews
URL: https://www.indeed.com/cmp/University-of-Colorado-Boulder/reviews
RETRIEVED: 2026-06-07
TYPE: Employee reviews, including TAs, graduate workers, and student workers. Overall 4.2/5 from 455 reviews.
Detailed ratings: Work-life balance 4.1, Pay and benefits 3.5, Job security/advancement 3.5, Management 3.8, Culture 3.9.
NOTE: One off-topic spam review (unrelated location/content) was excluded during cleaning.

--- REVIEWS (most relevant to students / TAs / grad workers) ---

[Graduate Teaching Assistant, Boulder CO] Pretty good place to work as a TA. Teaching staff was generally super nice and supportive. Pay wasn't bad for the number of hours worked, although TA pay is always bad. Good health insurance and retirement benefits.

[Teaching Assistant, Boulder CO] Good graduate school job. Good job to have while in graduate school. Typical day is helping students with their homework or exams. Culture is professional but laid back. Best of all, you are in the beautiful city of Boulder.

[Graduate Student Researcher, Boulder CO] World-class research institution. Lots of brilliant people work here. There are tons of resources to be a successful graduate student. The best part of working here was the region and climate.

[Graduate Research Assistant, Boulder CO] Good place for graduate school. My advisor was supportive and there are many opportunities to work with people from the many National labs around Boulder. Highly recommend for graduate school.

[Student Worker, Boulder CO] Great student position. As a student position, I was very pleased during my time in this role. Flexible hours, good pay, and a strong understanding that my classes came first.

[Student Assistant (Library), Boulder CO] Easy and straightforward work. Supervisors are really understanding and flexible with shifts. The job is very routined and can get boring, but there is usually always something to do.

[Various Positions / Student Worker, Boulder CO] Honestly just a fair job. My various jobs have been fair at worst and great at best. Because you're at the university, they understand class schedules and scheduling is rather simple. They pay better than some jobs out there.

[Driver/Dispatch (Night Ride), Boulder CO] Student position for the night owl. As a late-night rideshare service, Night Ride is a wonderful service offered by CU Boulder to students, faculty, and staff for free. As a worker it was a solid position but demanding — being up late messed with my circadian rhythm.

[Library Assistant, Boulder CO] Loved my time there. Worked in the library in several departments while going to school at CU. Loved my coworkers and looked forward to going to work. Overall a great place to work while attending CU as a student.

[OIT Co-Pilot, Boulder CO] Pretty awesome place to work. I worked in OIT; my bosses were very chill and laid back. If I had any problems they got back to me ASAP. Good way to get some extra money.

--- STAFF / CAREER CONTEXT REVIEWS ---

[Admissions Counselor, Boulder CO] Frustrating bureaucracy. A beneficial experience, but little room for upward mobility and leadership does not listen to the broader team. The culture is positive, supportive, and mission-driven, but the corporate hierarchy stifles direct impact for entry-level staff.

[Academic Advisor, CASE] Campus life either calls you or it doesn't. I love working on campus and was willing to take a significant pay cut to do it. Retirement benefits are good (TIAA options). I love the rhythm of campus life and using the EcoPass for transportation in Boulder.

[Program Coordinator, Boulder CO] Hardly any room for growth and terrible compensation. I worked here 4 years as a program coordinator and never made more than $50k a year. I received "Exceeding Expectations" in all evaluations but compensation never reflected that. Very little room for growth as a state employee.

[Coordinator, Boulder CO] Does not pay a living wage. Full-time staff are not paid fairly nor treated fairly. CU student government has too much power over budgets and staff pay.

[Campus Bus Driver, Boulder CO] A decent job with outstanding benefits. You are a university staff employee on salary with paid overtime and benefits that are very good. During the two semesters you can easily work 50 hours a week and are encouraged to stack overtime hours.

[Machinist, Boulder] Fun work environment. Enjoyable, typically 8-hour shifts. Well-equipped machine shop, fun work teaching students the beginnings of CNC machining. No major downsides.

[Custodian, Boulder CO] Overall good. As a custodian you work hard and are left alone. However, there is too much pressure to work sick and too much ignorance from some crew leadership.

[Victim Advocate, Boulder CO] Great office, not so great university. The Office of Victim Assistance has a great team and leadership; as someone with minoritized identities I feel supported and valued. My dissatisfaction is with the university — very hierarchical and slow to make systemic changes.