SOURCE: Reddit — CS majors perspectives at CU Boulder

r/cuboulder •5mo ago
sleepybiscu1t
Perspectives from CU Boulder CS Majors?
Hello, prospective Buff here!
I was curious if any CS majors had experiences to share. Iʼm curious about the program, job prospects
(specific to CU, ik they suck in general), and anything else.
Are the career fairs good? Are there internships nearby? Etc.
As an in state student, relative to every other school in Colorado, CU is ranked quite high for CS (#39).
However Iʼve heard mixed opinions on if CU is actually better than CSU/Mines or worth it tuition wise. Itʼs the
second most expensive school Iʼm looking at next to Purdue, but it also seems really impressive for an in state
school.
Any thoughts, perspectives, experiences, regrets?
Thanks so much!

purrmutations • 5mo ago
It is not worth it for out of state tuition, but that doesn't matter to a lot of people who are able to attend
CU.
I wouldn't say there is anything special about the CS program. Certainly nothing you couldn't/wouldn't
learn at basically any CS program. But if you are interested in the Aerospace industry, there will be some
good internship and job opportunities with the close tie between that industry and CU. Job opportunities
are still great for CS btw. They are #4 in employed in a job that requires a degree, behind computer
engineering, medical doctor, and another engineering. No other career gives you such a good chance to
get a remote job making 6 figures either right after graduating or within just a couple years. AI is
obviously going to shake everything up, but the troubles CS have will be felt by all degrees eventually. If
you enjoy coding I would still recommend it as a degree.
The town itself is awesome, and being right there next to the mountains also awesome. Convenient bus
ride to the airport is available. Denver is ok for a bigger city, though its too spread out imo compared to
other metro areas.

sleepybiscu1tOP • 5mo ago
Iʼve heard CU is great for Aerospace so that makes sense. Thanks for the insight!

Skagra42 • 5mo ago
I did my bachelors at CSU and am now doing my masters at CU. In my opinion, the computer science
program is much better here. Thereʼs more focus on subjects like CS theory over much less important
software engineering stuff. Not sure how it compares to Mines or Purdue.

sleepybiscu1tOP • 5mo ago
Hm I definitely see your point. Though I wonder how it would shake out as someone interested in
software engineering… You offer a very unique perspective having gone to both places, thank you!

purrmutations • 4mo ago
Theory is not as important for the majority of good jobs in CS though.

East-Status9230 • 5mo ago
I graduated from CU In Aerospace and Applied Math. I wish I studied CS because as an Intl student I had
trouble getting jobs in Aero, and this was 15 years ago and I was not well versed with the job market.
I think if you chose CS, there are better schools out there for it, but definitely the opportunity you get in
Aero is second to none. I would also look at schools in Denver, or out of state like Purdue or OSU where
tuition is comparable even as out of state student. Wish you the best.

sleepybiscu1tOP • 5mo ago
Very helpful, thank you for the input!

Original_Pickle_104 • 4mo ago
I had a great experience at CU. I am out-of-state and had roughly 50% covered by family, with the other
half on me to pay off after school. So thatʼs a major consideration. For Colorado, I think itʼs the best CS
program and I know a couple of people who transferred from other schools who would agree.
I would say CU is a mixed bag with classes. I had some classes where the teachers would be super
invested, create their own curriculum, etc. The math classes tended to be the higher quality professors.
Then, I would have other teachers who had material completely taken from a Carnegie Mellon course. My
into to robotics class was through Coursera for Christ sake and it didnʼt seem to be worth the $12,000 a
semester I was paying. With that said, thereʼs flexibility in which courses you can take and drop. I preach
this but I would go to the intro classes for everything (even ones I wasnʼt enrolled in) if possible to get a
feel. I dropped Robotics and HCI immediately and enrolled in better classes.
As for Boulder, it is becoming less of a tech hub than it used to be. Sun Microsystems was in Boulder
before it got bought by Oracle. It owned the rights to the Java platform and tech. Also had advanced
processors for the time. So thereʼs some lingering effects of that but Iʼd say Denver will probably end up
being better for tech jobs in the long run. But, I still count CU as a beneficiary of that so the job market
isnʼt so bad. Itʼs not Silicon Valley, but itʼs still pretty good. I graduated in December 2024 and had my
first day at a Boulder tech company in February.
And as someone from the Midwest, I donʼt know why anyone would move away from Colorado and go to
West Lafayette. And yes, I toured there too… great engineering but it sucks.

sleepybiscu1tOP • 4mo ago
Haha very interesting! Iʼm glad that some grads are surviving the market. West Lafayette is definitely
not incredible location wise, if I could plop Purdue here I would… If you paid 50% OOS Ltuoigti oInn and feel
itʼs worth it then thatʼs definitely high praise. Iʼll keep that in mind, thanks!

Original_Pickle_104 • 4mo ago
To clarify, that was after scholarships too. The full OOS tuition maybe wouldʼve changed my opinion
on that lol

[deleted] • 5mo ago
