SOURCE: Reddit — diversity and acceptance

r/cuboulder •1y ago
Unknownjarman
How accepting is cu of trans people?
Iʼm transitioning from MtF and was wondering how accepting cu is. I wanna go cause the building looks nice
and the dorms look pretty good to. I plan on going for computer science. Iʼm just curious if theyʼre programs
and stuff of the like. Also whatʼs the music scene like. Punk rock and electro stuff.

Routine_Force8625 • 1y ago
not a big music scene. the school is trans friendly, some of the students arent. just becareful

Unknownjarman OP • 1y ago
Iʼm always on edge anywhere better safe than sorry. Also I play in a band maybe Iʼll find some new
bandmates there

Routine_Force8625 • 1y ago
i play guitar, and am into punk and french house. so holler

1 more reply

Syca4877 • 1y ago
I think is a pretty decent music scene at Boulder. I went to a shit ton of house shows and had several
friends join and create their own bands and hold shows that were pretty sick. A lot of indie rock stuff,
but definitely some punk and harder metal/rock bands if you find the crowd

Skip[ dtoe lmetaeidn] c•o1ny taegnot

plagiarism22 • 1y ago
If youʼre a trans person going into computer science youʼll probably blend in with other students lmao.
But in all seriousness cu boulder is pretty accepting of all queer people. The city of boulder is great too!

Informal-Hand-435 • 1y ago
Overall the vibe in general is very accepting. Sometimes, however, it seems like the conservatives feel
like they need to martyr themselves and can be pretty nasty…

oakles• 1y ago
a good portion of the CS student body was LGBT when i attended (myself included). definitely more so
than the other engineering departments. i can't speak to the trans experience as a whole at CU but i
never saw or heard anything negative or alarming.

Unknownjarman OP • 1y ago
Only thing Iʼm worried about is being targeted. So far here where I live itʼs been pretty bad

oakles• 1y ago
no one's going to be able to give you a 100% guarantee that it won't happen. but, relatively
speaking, Boulder is a very accepting and progressive city. i wouldn't worry about it too much.

3 more replies

Forward_Pick6383 • 1y ago
Itʼs pretty inclusive here, but like anywhere, there is a certain degree of assholes to the population.
Overall you will be fine. I see flyers all the time for house shows with various punk bands.

Unknownjarman OP • 1y ago
I play bass and guitar. I like just playing with random people doesnʼt matter what genre. Also i saw a
clip from a punk show in Denver looked so fun

SpaceKiohtee • 1y ago
The conservatives/anti-LGBT people on campus tend to keep to themselves, you might run into the
occasional high octane idiot but nothing that would truly pose a threat to you. We also have a radio,
thatʼs usually a good way to find out about upcoming punk shows.

Unknownjarman OP • 1y ago
One of the reasons I wanna go to boulder is cause itʼs very friendly to LGBTQ+ friendly.L Jougs Itn about
anywhere we are welcomed there are some good punk bands.

armada_of_armadillos • 1y ago
Iʼm trans too and people have been good to me. Thereʼs punk shows very (very) occasionally, and they
happen more often in Denver, which is about a half hour drive or about an hour on the bus.

Le-grande-Ulrich • 1y ago
the scene is pretty good, thereʼs a bunch of shows that go on, and i know some bands who are local
here. Mostly punk stuff. If you want in on any of it, hit me up

JFJinCO • 1y ago
Boulder is one of the most open, liberal, and accepting cities in the USA, and CU is very LGBTQ+ friendly
too.
