SOURCE: Reddit — dorm life tips (Q3 source for laundry)

r/cuboulder •7d ago
great_equator
If you're moving into a dorm for the first time, read this.
I left home at 14 to live at a boarding high school (think almost identical to college, but with high school level
classes and a curfew).
I'm currently a junior at CU, so in total, I have 6 full years of experience living in dorms. Ask me anything.
Below are also some takeaways and secret tips I've collected, which I wish I knew going into the whole thing. I
also created a packing list below that, shaped from years of trial and error.
- You do not need a shower caddy or basket.
These are included in every college packing list. What actually happens is that you will have a dripping basket
with no practical storage location, that will eventually get moldy. Instead, especially if you don't want to
change your clothes in front of a roommate, just wrap your soap and stuff in the towel you're going to use,
and walk to the bathroom in your clothes. Change there. Use your dirty clothes as a bathmat. Dry off the
toiletries with the towel, wrap them up again, and go back.
- Don't put pillows on your bed that can't be put into a pillowcase.
I bought one of those armchair-like things for my bed for my first dorm. Not being able to have a fresh cover
with the rest of my sheets every week ended up giving me acne. It is also totally unnecessary, because you
can lean against your normal pillows just fine.
- Less is more.
You don't need to bring everything from your childhood bedroom, only things that you touch at least every
month. Lightweight and efficient versions of everything are king for moves and traveling back home.
- You will need your keycard every time you leave, including to use the bathroom.
Don't make the mistake of going to shower and forgetting it, because if you don't have anyone to call or your
roommate isn't there, you'll need to walk down to the main lobby in a towel and get a temporary key.
- Set a timer for your laundry on your phone so someone doesn't pull all your wet clothes out onto the
floor in order to use it.
- Use your backpack to carry groceries if you're taking the bus to the store.
The Bound bus line goes straight from Will Vill to King Soopers (a local grocery store).
- A dish sponge or brush is a pain in the ass.
You won't have a sink to put it next to, and it'll get moldy, just like a shower caddy. I ate out of containers and
washed dishes using my hand and paper towels.
- Yes, they can hear your music and your private phone call.
- Dispose of food using plastic bags.
There's usually no sink disposal, and flushing it down the toilet was a really stupid mistake I made in high
school, because it caused a blockage.
- Ask for your roommate's schedule right away.
It's handy to know when they'll be around and when they won't.
- You're allowed to rearrange the furniture, and fully figure this out before you unpack.
It doesn't all have to be against the walls, but it largely depends on the size of the room and what furniture
you're offered (usually a desk, 3-drawer dresser, chair, bed). I recommend having your bed by a window.
- Laundry is least crowded early in the week, most crowded on Sunday.
- Don't buy a TV.
It will be a huge pain while moving, and you probably won't have time to use it very much. I have always opted
to sneak into a classroom or lecture hall, hook up my laptop to the projector, and get a full theater experience
to watch sports or movies. Can also work with gaming.
- Dorm meetings aren't actually required.
Nobody will say anything or come after you if you don't go. I'd recommend it, though.
- The flashing thing on the ceiling is an occupancy sensor.
- Top floor of Stearns has a cool library.
- People screw around on common area furniture.
The fabric will get you pregnant if you're not careful. There's also god knows how many ancient boogers
embedded in them. Keep that in mind, especially during cold season.
- Don't get your keycard near magnets, including on the back of your phone.
My card stopped working in both high school and college because I stored it there.
- Pin a hat over the thermostat to prevent it from reading its own AC and turning off too soon, and hold
an ice cube on the bottom to turn on the heat.
----------
And here's a list of some stuff you'll actually need.
- For storing toiletries and clothes, get these three items.
For toiletries, get one of these hanging roll-ups. I can't exaggerate how efficient it made everything. Hang it in
your closet or somewhere better, and use it for your place to put things like your body wash after showering.
Using coathangers or the provided drawers will limit your storage. Hanging shelves are your best bet. These
have survived me until now. There is also a trick for packing them. Instead of emptying out all your clothes
from them, you can collapse them with the clothes inside, and fit them perfectly into one of these bags (which
are also extremely useful for things like bedding). That way, you take them out again with your clothes all
folded, organized, and ready.
- Little things you might forget about.
- Small trash bags
- Scissors
- Earplugs (Dorms are noisy. Will also make you lock in harder during exams when surrounded by people in an
echoey lecture hall.)
- Ibuprofen/Tylenol (Keep these in your backpack, not in your room. A ziploc bag is good if you don't want
your backpack to sound like you're bringing a maraca to class.)
- Thumbtacks
- Batteries
- Compact baby stapler
- Handheld notepad (Acts as index cards, sticky notes; your thing to frantically grab when writing down
something being read off to you during a phone call.)
- Cold/flu meds (I guarantee you will get sick between October-December, then again between March-April).
Zicam has saved me before.
- Tweezers
- Nail clipper (this one is nice if you don't want to put your foot up on a communal toilet.)
- Outlet block.
- Camping dinnerware set.
This acts as your tupperware/lunchbox in addition to everything else you would need. Microwavable, light, and
stored neatly as one compact item.
- Headlamp.
CU Boulder has more power outages than any other place I've lived in, and I don't know what I would have
done without one.
- For cleaning and first aid, you can kill multiple birds with one stone.
Clorox wipes are not safe for surfaces that may have food touching them, whereas medical isopropyl wipes
will evaporate immediately, leaving zero residue, and have just the same disinfecting power. Not to mention,
they safely clean a wound. Instead of band-aids, get turf tape. Same stuff band-aids use, but much cheaper,
and can be cut to whatever size or shape you need, over a tissue or gauze. It'll also come in handy for
anything you'd use duct tape for. Aquaphor will miraculously heal things overnight, and you'll certainly need it
for chapped lips in Colorado. The tub of that size I got years ago has lasted me since.
- Easy-to-assemble floor lamp.
The overhead lights will be harsh and greenish, and will eliminate any possibility of coziness. Make sure to get
one that will be bright enough to fill the room, so you can come back at night, turn it on, and be in a
comfortable environment. I've had this one for all 6 years, and it's now happily in my apartment. Collapses
away and is packed easily.
- Shop fan.
A tall rotating one will be annoying during moves. I ended up opting for a proper shop fan, which can clamp
onto edges, be hung on the wall or magnetically stuck on the side of the microwave, and is quite powerful.
- Portable door lock.
Works for any door. Helps for study rooms that people have to open the door to see if it's occupied, which can
be distracting.
- Lint roller.
Lifesaver for crumbs on the floor, loose hair on stuff, dust, and dirt. Saved me when I broke glass on the
carpet, it picked up all the little shards. I regularly used it to clean the floor, and it does a better job than a
swiffer. Also very useful for dusty surfaces. Get one of the wide pet hair ones.
- Camping backpack with interior pockets.
I carry everything I may need, including lunch, sunscreen, deodorant, calculator, gloves for cold weather,
whatever, in my backpack. A lightweight, resilient one with places to put tiny things inside will be a wise
choice.
- Hamper bag, and detergent sheets.
You will probably have stairs to climb if you want to do laundry. Also, I had a bag of tide pods pop open during
a move a few years ago, prompting me to switch to sheets. Much better.
- XL Twin sheets, pillowcases, blanket, and your own pillow.
Make sure you can wash the blanket, or if it's a comforter, put on a cover and wash that.
- Waterproof file folder.
Especially if you're bringing your birth certificate, you will need a place to put it, and you will also probably
collect things like tax documents if you have a job. This protected important papers during the previously
mentioned Tide Pod Explosion Incident of 2023.
- Ultralight towels instead of fluffy ones.
Fun fact, there are showers in some of the academic buildings, and you can shower at the campus gym (the
Rec). You'll need to pack a towel. A normal fluffy towel didn't fit in my backpack, so I started using these. The
compact camping towels get down to the size of a banana, dry you just as well as a normal oneL,o agn dIn they dry
out much faster, preventing mildew.
- Screwdriver with different attaching heads, and pliers.
You are going to end up needing a screwdriver. The different types of heads has been a big plus for things like
repairs over the years, because dorms often use screws with unusual heads. There were also many times
needle-nose pliers came in handy.
- Desk drawer tray.
You are going to have a desk drawer that will quickly fill up, and you'll probably put other, non-office stuff in
there too. Getting one of these was a game-changer. Also nice because you just lift the whole thing out with
everything in it, and then when you put it into your new desk (wherever it is), it's all ready for you.

Meizas • 7d ago
If I can add some things -
Get some Narcan to have on hand. Even if you don't use drugs, someone in the dorms inevitably does.
If they take something laced with something else, everyone will be glad you have it.
Related to that, I agree absolutely about having a personal first aid kit with the essentials like ibuprofen,
Pepto bismol, etc. As OP said, you will get sick sometime. The dorms are full of gross, sick people.
Gross, sick people who then go kiss each other. Last year(?) like all my undergrad students got strep
because it ravaged one of the dorms.
Okay, I know some innocent , sheltered freshman is going to read this and freak out - The fabric on the
furniture can't actually get you pregnant, but just know those couches have SEEN THINGS. Horrible
things.
Anyway. Great list. I disagree about using your hand and paper towels for dishes, but whatever works for
you, I guess.
Love the "sneaking into classes for the projector" idea and am mad that in my ten years of college I've
never once thought of doing that.
To add to the pillowcase thing - for the love of all that is good, if nothing else, wash your sheets and and
pillowcases regularly. I knew a guy who didn't wash them for a YEAR AND A HALF. He got a full body
staph infection.
I'd add get some kind of a small compact multi tool like a Leatherman
I had a little lap desk for my laptop or to use as a small table and really liked it.
I agree with the hamper bag rather than a big physical one. People bring plastic ones and they always
end up broken and jagged by the end haha - 100% agree with the bag
Eye masks and earplugs for sleeping too

great_equator OP • 7d ago
Lap desk is a great idea. Thanks for the additions!

Ok-Candidate-2183 • 6d ago
Fabric will get you pregnant? Really?

great_equator OP • 6d ago
Just kidding for the sake of emphasis. Sperm cells die when it dries out, so nothing to worry about
besides grossness.

KnowYourLimit69 • 7d ago
I agree with most of what you said except my shower caddy was probably the most useful item I had in
my dorm. It would have been so much of a pain going to shower and having to carry shampoo, body
soap, face soap, wash cloth or loofah or whatever you use, and for me toothbrush and toothpaste.
Shower caddy was so useful, and they have holes all through them so water can get out and prevent
mold. Used the same one all year as a freshman, and just put it on a towel in my closet and changed the
towel often enough it didnʼt get nasty, but really not sure how mold would be a problem. Second is my
roomate and I got a 50 inch TV for like $95 at Costco and used it all the time. We played Xbox games
together, had friends in our dorm to watch sports games and movies. And we often would watch YouTube
videos or family guy or something before bed together. Was never a pain to deal with, and since TVs are
so cheap nowadays we just donated it after a year of use.

No2Ael • 2d ago
I'm seconding the shower caddy, It think the issue is you need one something not cloth and then
don't keep it in a closet. Our air is so dry out here it's usually not a problem. I had this thing ages ago
and worked great. https://www.lowes.com/pd/DII-Shower-Caddy-Pink/1002863854 I also had a
stupid little towel robe thing so I felt moderately less embarrassed when I inevitably forgot my room
key and had to walk up to get a spare with dripping hair and no underwear. Also, shower shoes, keep
them in the caddy and use them or you will get a weird wart.

Dragwhal • 7d ago
This is a lot of good stuff, thanks

ReginaPhalange74 • 7d ago
Thank you for this! I was a CU student ages ago, but my son is about to head there in the fall. This is
incredibly helpful information!

mindset_matter • 7d ago
Fantastic list, A+

calliopemuse • 7d ago
This is a great list! Very thoughtful and while I was in college decades ago, I can see how this is an
amazing list. A couple of these things I took on a 3-week trip to Egypt (microfiber towel, foLldoign gIn &
hanging toiletries kit, a bamboo camping utensil set, a camping mug) and super helpful for rougher
travel, too. Well done!

maliksmamma • 6d ago
Thanks for this info!

Top-Photograph5222 • 5d ago
Excellent!
