SOURCE: Reddit — reduce cost of attendance

r/cuboulder •1y ago
Secret-Test1603
Is there any way to reduce Cost of Attendance?
Currently I'm planning on attending CU Boulder out of state for Aerospace engineering, and I gLoot ga I2n5K
scholarship to be spread over all 4 years. Money is not a problem for me, but I still want to save some money
to the benefit of my parents. Looking at the table, is there any way for me to reduce the On-campus housing
and meal plans after freshmen year, like by living off campus in a 4 people apartment and eating cheaper food
alternatives, or anyway to reduce the Books/Supplies cost by finding resources online. Does it sound plausible
for me to reduce my freashmen year 60K COA down to 59K or lower, and also for lowering the years after that
down to 50K per year or lower for COA. Also for any people currently going to CU OOS, are these cost
estimates accurate?

chaps_and • 1y ago
Use the library's course reserves for at least some of your textbooks.
https://libraries.colorado.edu/services/course-reserves
I had some semesters where I relied 100% on the library's course reserves. Other times, I purchased.
Other times, I did a mix.

Secret-Test1603 OP • 1y ago
Thanks

HarmonyInBadTaste • 1y ago
While being an RA at CU is a ton of work (more than it should be). A solid record of community service
and good grades can land you free housing. It's like working a full time job don't be fooled but it's how
many people cut out that housing bill.

Secret-Test1603 OP • 1y ago
Do you think it's possible to juggle an RA's workload on top of the workload I'll get from AE
coursework?

HarmonyInBadTaste • 1y ago
Anything is possible but talk to your RA to see if you'd enjoy the job. I did it at a different school
and it was very demanding but so was my major. Log In

matteooooooooooooo • 1y ago
I dunno if this is applicable to engineering, but can you get your general ed credits done at an in-state
community college?

PhillConners • 1y ago

woahwhoamiidk • 1y ago
Very applicable to engineering. I only did 2 years of schooling at CU to get my engineering degree
through a combo of community college and high school APʼs

BellaGothsButtPlug • 1y ago
OP could save their parents nearly a hundred thousand dollars with this option but won't...

stacksmasher • 1y ago
This is the correct answer. 1/4 the cost.

Due-Taro-9313 • 1y ago
First step in cutting cost for me would be buying used supplies. Books, computer, calculator, etc. Iʼd
recommend looking for student discounts if in the market for a laptop because typically itʼs about a $100
discount. Also, refurbished computers face more scrutiny than ones fresh off the manufacturing line so
youʼre more likely to have a longer lifespan on refurbished computers when buying them through the
brand. And maybe try to get some classes done with a community college, online or in person, over the
summer 🤷‍♂️

vseprviper • 1y ago
Even the off-campus used bookstore will only save you like 10% on your textbooks, from my
experience. Find free PDFs of them online (parody, in minecraft, erc)

jinkies888 • 1y ago
Thereʼs a Google drive (allegedly) with all the aerospace textbooks youʼll need. Ask an
upperclassman for the link. Donʼt use your school email

shortgreenpea • 1y ago
Books are about 300 per semester through the campus book program (you pay a fixed amount t for all
your books). So Iʼm not sure why the 600 number.
Unfortunately though, itʼs not easy to find cheaper (decent) off campus housing. My kid was in the
dorms this year and for next year is renting a 4br apt with friends. They donʼt allow more than 4 people
to live there and the cost is 5400 per month, with a year lease. Per person this is 16,200 per year, before
utilities or food - which is more than living on campus. That said, I am sure if you are able to live a bit
farther from campus or find a house with shared rooms I am sure it is possible to save money - just know
that it isnʼt a given.

purrmutations • 1y ago
You can absolutely find cheaper housing than that. I rented a house off Pearl street from 2019-2023,
5 bedrooms, 3 floors, 4000 a month. You have to find private landlords, and have reliable roommates.

Secret-Test1603 OP • 1y ago
Is it possible to live in different cities that have LCOL (like Louisville, Longmont, or Bloomfield) with a
4br apt and take a bus to the campus. Or to just join the co-op living program boulder offers, I was
also wondering if living with 5 or more people is possible with a lenient enough landlord. I'm really
just looking for ways to bring down the Housing and Meal plans after freshmen year to ~7-9K. Also
I'm likely going to go back to my home-state every summer, so is it possible to find housing locations
that accept 9 month payments.

BellaGothsButtPlug • 1y ago
OP I went to CU for 3 years and never once paid for a book. Its not hard. As for REAL ways to help
with the cost, here are a few options (but they require huge sacrifice on your part so):
1. Get loans and do ROTC or enlist acter graduation for air force so they will pay off your loans,
that way your parents pay nothing.
2. Go to a local community college then reapply for CU Boulder to save a hundred thousand
dollars or more.
3. Do step 2 THEN step 1 and enter ROTC/enlistment with a huge step up because you have a
degree.
4. Get a job and work every spare second outside of school and give every cent you earn to
your parents.
You are not going to find a way to save money without some pretty big sacrifice. The sooner you
get on board with this the better. And I'm not gonna lie, if your first instinct is to sayL o"mg oInney is no
issue" when it's someone else's money, then I think my advice is going to fall on deaf ears.
You're never going to save them money living off campus in Boulder. Your ideas all read like
someone who has never had to support themselves. And commuting from
Louisville/Longmont/anywhere else is going to come with increased costs in gas/vehicle
maintenance/etc. You're searching for solutions where they don't exist when the solutions are
painfully obvious.
Best of luck to you.

HazelFlame54 • 1y ago

UnitLost6398 • 1y ago
The move would be to move to Colorado and attend a community college for the first year, so phys 1 / 2,
calc 1 / 2, and some gen eds. Then you should able to apply to CU as a 4.0 CC grad with in state tuition.

woahwhoamiidk • 1y ago
Contingent that you donʼt take your parents health insurance, have a permanent residence here,
change your drivers license, voters registration, car registration, etc.
Itʼs what I did, and it worked, but itʼs not just as simple as going to CC here

cgund • 1y ago
Yes you have to become totally financially independent from your parents to get in-state tuition.
It's not as simple as moving here and going to cc for a year.

journey37• 1y ago
This is the way 100%

vseprviper • 1y ago
…as long as you confirm beforehand that CU will accept the transfer credits. That program
specifically is pretty elitist and very proud of its freshman weedout courses lmao Log In

1 more reply

On_Mt_Vesuvius• 1y ago
While most of the other comments are reasonable ways to save a few thousand over your time. Here are
a few difficult / nearly impossible ways to save 5 digits worth of dollars. I know people who have done
each of these, but a few years ago, so it might have changed or be harder to do.
1. Graduate in 3 / 3.5 years. Look up prerequisites, consider studying for and taking an extra AP tests
this year if it's the difference to start sophomore level classes. Don't retake any APs if you're doing
this. Plan out the core classes for all 3 years to see if it's doable.
2. Get in-state tuition at some point. Even if it's just for senior year, you keep your out of state
scholarship for that year, but pay in-state tuition, so it could basically be free. I'd consider this
harder. My friend got this because his dad moved to CO for work coincidentally, otherwise, I've not
heard of it.
3. Other scholarship programs, even while enrolled. You can still apply for many scholarships while a
student! Almost everyone forgets this, only looking for and applying to scholarships before they
come to CU.

purrmutations • 1y ago
You can get all the books for free from libgen
